Mahout Y Hoi Bya sits atop his elephant. He whacks him with a large stick. He urges him toward the finish line at the Buon Don race in Vietnam's central highlands. Vietnam is a country in Southeast Asia. 
Locals say the race is a celebration of the much-loved animals. They say that elephants have traditionally been thought of as family members in central Vietnam. But conservation groups are calling for an end to the festival. They say it is cruel and outdated. 
The Buon Don elephant festival is normally held every two years. It is a major tourist event. The festival has soccer matches, swimming sessions, a parade and a buffet for the elephants. The event is topped off with a highly anticipated elephant race on the final two days. 
Y Hoi says his animal's past successes in the popular race has earned him and his pet pride of place in his village in central Dak Lak province. This is home to many of Vietnam's surviving elephants. 
"He often wins first place in the running competition in Dak Lak," said the 38-year-old. He started caring for elephants as a young boy. 
Before the race, his elephant gets a regular diet of bananas and sugarcane. This diet gives him strength for the big race, Y Hoi said. 
It appears to have worked: he rode his elephant KhamSinh to victory. He beat out 10 others for the top prize of $130. 
The festival drew hundreds of cheering viewers as well as animal rights activists. The activists say the elephants shouldn't be forced to work long hours under the hot sun. They feel the animals should not be beaten with sticks during the race. 
"That is one of the highest levels of animal cruelty, especially because it's entertainment," said Dionne Slagter. She is from the non-profit Animals Asia. 
She was happy to see fewer elephants take part in this year's festivities. There were just 14 elephants this year, compared to the dozens in years past. Slagter hopes authorities adopt a more ethical approach to animal tourism in the future. 
Animals Asia last year launched Vietnam's first ethical elephant tours, offering guests a chance to see the animals which the non-profit rescued roaming in a national park. 
More than 80 elephants in Vietnam are still kept in captivity, usually used for elephant rides — backbreaking work that won't allow them to have babies later in life. 
The 100 to 150 wild elephants have also shown little promise of boosting their numbers. 
The festival left some spectators like Vu Tran Minh Anh with mixed feelings. 
"I didn't think elephants could do so many things like play football, run and swim," the student told AFP. "But I do feel sorry for the elephants." 