Archaeologists can tell a lot by looking through trash from thousands of years ago. These scientists study human history. For example, archeologists may study piles of chipped stones and broken shells left by hungry humans long ago. Doing this can reveal where people lived, how they lived and for how long. 
Now, scientists are applying this same archaeological approach to a different creature. They are revealing new insights into a furry, endangered mammal. This animal has a similar taste for shelled snacks. 
Wild sea otters crack open mussels by smashing them on stationary stones. That makes them one of the few animals that use tools. Researchers observed southern sea otters engaging in such behaviors along the California coast. Then they analyzed wear and tear on stones and shells deposited nearby. The researchers were able to make some surprising conclusions. 
For instance, many of the discarded mussels have consistent cracks along the same side, which suggests that most otters at the site were right-handed. For decades, researchers believed that only great apes and humans had a preferred "hand." However, kangaroos, blue whales and now sea otters have all been shown to have preferred hands. 
Different Subspecies Have Different Habits 
A study about the otters was recently published in the journal Scientific Reports. The amount of shells and wear to the rocks also provide a baseline for estimating how many decades otters have been feeding at this site, the study says. The researchers are trying to prove that these archaeological methods work for studying animals, too. That way, future researchers can return and create a timeline of activity at this site and others. 
Jessica Fujii is a senior researcher at the Monterey Bay Aquarium in California. She is also the leader of the study. She says that creating a timeline of the otters' history could tell us more about how long otters have been using tools, and how widespread the tool use has been. 
They could also answer a big question about two subspecies of sea otters. Southern sea otters live in California and northern sea otters live in the Pacific Northwest and Alaska. For some reason the southern otters are more likely to use tools than the northern sea otters. 
Archaeology has been used to study the animal kingdom before. However, until this study, it was focused mostly on primates such as chimpanzees. 
In 2016, primate archaeologists studied bearded capuchin monkeys. They discovered that the monkeys used stone anvils more than 600 years earlier than previously thought. They also learned the anvils were used in regions no longer frequented by that species of monkey. 
In fact, primate archaeologists partnered with sea otter biologists on the new study. 
Natalie Uomini is a scientist at the Max Planck Institute for the Science of Human History in Munich, Germany. She did not know about the sea otter archaeologists at first but was thinking about some of the same ideas they were. 
Using Stones To Smash Prey 
"We were separately, and completely independently, thinking about how to apply archaeology to other animals," she says. 
Now that animal archaeology has broken into marine environments, it could lead to similar findings for other tool-wielding wildlife living in the water. Tool use has been found among only a few marine animals, including dolphins. They use sponges to protect their beaks while hunting fish in coral. They may even give sponges to one another as a sign of love. 
Tusk fish hunt hard-shelled animals such as sea urchins and baby sea turtles. Like sea otters, they smash their prey against their favorite stationary stones. 
Culum Brown is a biologist at the Macquarie University Fish Lab in New South Wales, Australia. "There's so many similarities, it's quite unbelievable," he says. 
Tusk fish, much like humans, have trash heaps of their own, called shell middens. Brown says researchers can use the same methods as standard archaeology to excavate fragments of shells from the middens. Then you can see how long the sites have been used for, he says. 