The health benefits of seasonal eating are widely appreciated in China. The arrival of spring sees people enjoying a range of delicious seasonal delicacies that promote renewal and revival after the cold of winter. 
Chinese toon 
China’s great size means that its traditions and cultures vary enormously across the land. One major cultural axis is the north-south divide, as defined by the mighty Yangtze River. Winters in northern China tend to be harsh, so spring is all about rediscovering leafy greens after a season without fresh vegetables. One particularly popular seasonal speciality is the young leaves and shoots of the Chinese toon, a perennial hardwood tree also known as Chinese cedar or mahogany. Seeing and smelling this uniquely aromatic ‘tree vegetable’ in the markets of Beijing tells locals that warmer weather is on its way. People take full advantage of the Chinese toon’s super-short two-week season, stir-frying it with egg, rice or tofu to add a pleasant crunchiness and a flavour that is similar to onion. Rich in vitamins and antioxidants, the leaves and shoots are the perfect start to a springtime of healthy eating. 
Spring pancakes 
In the Chinese lunisolar calendar, the beginning of the spring solar period is called lichun. For almost 2,000 years, people in the north of the country have celebrated the coming of a new, easier season by eating spring pancakes on this day. Nowadays, these Chinese flatbreads are wrapped around fresh vegetables and meat (usually pork), although people sometimes add walnuts and sugar for a sweeter treat. Made from flour and water, the thin pancakes are usually slightly larger than those you might eat with Peking duck. When eating these pancakes, people say they are yaochun or ‘biting into the spring’, and expressing their wishes for a good harvest year ahead. 
Bamboo shoots 
Although winters in the southern half of China tend to be milder, they are renowned for their damp cold that seems to chill you to the bone. When warmer weather returns, however, many central and southern Chinese celebrate by hitting their local mountain trails to go in search of spring bamboo shoots. These tender young shoots are usually dug out from the ground at about two weeks old, just after they’ve broken through the soil. Fresh bamboo shoots have a bitter taste and must be boiled in water to rid them of the naturally occurring toxins found within. They are commonly fried or stewed with salty meat and pickled cabbage, which contrast wonderfully with the refreshing, slightly grassy tasty of the shoots. Bamboo shoots are rich in a variety of amino acids and vitamins and are said to be particularly good for nourishing the brain and strengthening the body. 
Spring tea 
Spring is the very best time to enjoy China’s national drink. The Chinese name their teas after the four seasons, and ‘spring tea’ refers to the very first batches of leaves harvested earliest in the year. At this point, the tiny, newly emerged leaves are at their most tender and sweet, giving a fresh and delicate flavour to the tea made with them. The window to pick these coveted leaves is extremely short, only about 10 to 14 days. In eastern tea-growing provinces such as Zhejiang and Jiangsu, the picking season usually begins at the start of April, although different regions vary depending on their climate. After the initial burst, the tea bushes begin to grow more rapidly, and as their leaves grow larger, the quality of the tea that is made with them diminishes. Tea made with spring leaves is abundant in nutrients such as vitamins and amino acids, making them excellent for your health. They may, however, cause damage to your wallet – per kilo, the very earliest leaves, picked from the best bushes in the country, such as Dragon Well tea from Hangzhou, fetch more than the price of gold! 